.TH USER-ACTIVITY-REPORTER 1 "January 2026" "user-activity-reporter 1.0.1" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
user-activity-reporter \- User Activity Reporter for Linux
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B user-activity-reporter
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBuser-activity-reporter\fR is a comprehensive command-line tool for monitoring and reporting user activities on Linux systems. It provides information about user login times, online duration, and active process counts.
.PP
The tool is designed for system administrators who need to track user activity and monitor system resource usage.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Display help message and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v, \-\-version\fR
Display version information and exit.
.TP
\fB\-u, \-\-user\fR \fIUSER\fR
Show activity for a specific user only.
.TP
\fB\-a, \-\-all\fR
Show all users (default behavior).
.TP
\fB\-s, \-\-sort\fR \fIFIELD\fR
Sort output by specified field. Valid fields are:
.RS
.PP
\fBuser\fR \- Sort by username (default)
.PP
\fBlogin\fR \- Sort by last login time
.PP
\fBduration\fR \- Sort by online duration
.PP
\fBprocesses\fR \- Sort by process count
.RE
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-reverse\fR
Reverse the sort order.
.TP
\fB\-w, \-\-watch\fR [\fISECONDS\fR]
Enable real-time monitoring mode. The display refreshes every N seconds (default: 5). Press Ctrl+C to stop.
.TP
\fB\-o, \-\-output\fR \fIFILE\fR
Export the report to the specified file.
.TP
\fB\-f, \-\-format\fR \fIFORMAT\fR
Specify output format. Valid formats are:
.RS
.PP
\fBtable\fR \- Human-readable table format (default)
.PP
\fBjson\fR \- JSON format for programmatic processing
.PP
\fBcsv\fR \- CSV format for spreadsheet applications
.RE
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-config\fR \fIFILE\fR
Use a custom configuration file instead of the default.
.TP
\fB\-\-no\-color\fR
Disable colored output.
.TP
\fB\-\-threshold\fR \fIN\fR
Highlight users with more than N processes (alert threshold).
.SH EXAMPLES
Show activity for all users:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter
.fi
.RE
.PP
Show activity for a specific user:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter \-u username
.fi
.RE
.PP
Enable real-time monitoring with 10-second refresh:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter \-w 10
.fi
.RE
.PP
Export report to JSON file:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter \-o report.json \-f json
.fi
.RE
.PP
Sort by process count in descending order:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter \-s processes \-r
.fi
.RE
.PP
Highlight users with more than 50 processes:
.PP
.RS
.nf
$ user-activity-reporter \-\-threshold 50
.fi
.RE
.SH OUTPUT FORMATS
.SS Table Format
The default table format displays:
.RS
.PP
\fBUSER\fR \- Username
.PP
\fBLAST LOGIN\fR \- Last login time
.PP
\fBDURATION\fR \- Current session duration (if logged in)
.PP
\fBPROCESSES\fR \- Number of active processes
.RE
.SS JSON Format
JSON output includes:
.RS
.PP
\fBtimestamp\fR \- Report generation time
.PP
\fBusers\fR \- Array of user objects with:
.RS
.IP \(bu 2
\fBusername\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBlast_login\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBduration_seconds\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBduration_formatted\fR
.IP \(bu 2
\fBprocess_count\fR
.RE
.RE
.SS CSV Format
CSV output includes columns:
.RS
.PP
username, last_login, duration_seconds, duration_formatted, process_count
.RE
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI/etc/user-activity-reporter/user-activity.conf\fR
System-wide configuration file.
.TP
\fI/usr/share/user-activity-reporter/user-activity-lib.sh\fR
Shared library functions.
.TP
\fI/var/log/user-activity\fR
Default directory for exported reports (if configured).
.SH CONFIGURATION
The configuration file supports the following options:
.RS
.PP
\fBDEFAULT_FORMAT\fR \- Default output format (table, json, csv)
.PP
\fBENABLE_COLORS\fR \- Enable colored output (true/false)
.PP
\fBDEFAULT_REFRESH_INTERVAL\fR \- Default watch mode refresh interval (seconds)
.PP
\fBPROCESS_THRESHOLD\fR \- Default process count threshold
.PP
\fBEXCLUDE_USERS\fR \- Comma-separated list of users to exclude
.PP
\fBINCLUDE_ONLY\fR \- Comma-separated list of users to include
.RE
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
0
Success.
.TP
1
Error occurred (invalid arguments, user not found, etc.).
.SH NOTES
.PP
The tool requires read access to system files such as \fI/etc/passwd\fR, \fI/var/log/wtmp\fR, and process information via \fI/proc\fR.
.PP
Only regular users (UID >= 1000) are displayed by default. This can be changed in the configuration file.
.PP
The tool uses standard Linux commands: \fBwho\fR, \fBlast\fR, \fBps\fR, \fBdate\fR, and \fBgetent\fR.
.SH AUTHOR
Soltan and Moridan Team <fargol.nz@gmail.com>
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR who (1),
.BR last (1),
.BR ps (1),
.BR w (1)